Assigment to evaluate professional competencies and identify 3 strenths and 3 areas for improvement:

Top three strengths:
1. Speaking: I've found that I can often verbally explain concepts in way that people can understand. This runs counter to my point about writing later, but when speaking I find it easier to use tools like analogies for clarification. The more casual nature of a conversation helps me to find a quick way to sum up concepts to people when necessary.
2. Process: Given a system process, I've found I can adapt well to using the tools available. My last job was in calibration, where our processes were important. As a QA rep, I had a process to follow for verification of work, and complacency is what lets mistakes through. Having a process, using that process, and immediately bringing up issues is already how I've operated in my last field and it's served me very well so far.
3. Adaptability: I feel that I have a proficiency for adapting to situations on the fly. I can usually pivot from where I am into a new direction fairly quickly based on new information as it's presented. If the new information is of negative nature, I prefer to focus more on a constructive solution than on assigning blame.

Top three areas for growth:
1. Writing: I have the ability and knowledge to write well, but have a habit of being long-winded. I've found that when I need to write an explanation or even an email, I sometimes struggle to get to the point. When it comes to technical documetation, succinctness is often a key quality to strive for. A good example would be a readme file, where I should convey what's necessary without bogging the reader down with exposition. I don't want people to lose interest in a project before they even see what it can do.
2. Decision making: This one is especially difficult for me. When I'm making a decision that affects only myself, I can often come to a conclusion fairly quickly, especially if I understand the details of my choices. If my decision will affect a group, however, I have a much harder time. It's difficult not to be concerned that my decision might have a negative impact on teammates or those around me if the chance exists. Often this can lead to choice paralysis and indecision on my part.
3. Networking: This is something I've never invested much time in. In the Marines, we would say "it's a small marine corps" because it was easy to feel like everyone knew everyone, but I haven't really carried that same mindset into the civilian professional world. I know that the "small world" feeling isn't unique to the military, and would like to achieve something at least a little similar with programming. As it stands now, I'm essentially an outsider, but when I have my coding chops ready I'd like to build a network of contacts and experts that I can rely on. Luckily, it seems like the Code Fellows community is a network in itself, so I've at least got a start.

Reference: [Professional Competencies (CodeFellows)](https://codefellows.github.io/common_curriculum/career_coaching/common/professional-competencies)
